WebEngage Documentation (#620)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/marketing/webengage.mdx

---
title: "WebEngage"
description: Step-by-step guide on sending your event data from RudderStack to WebEngage.
---

# WebEngage

[WebEngage](https://webengage.com/) is a full stack marketing automation tool. It lets you drive growth for your businesses by engaging your users via push and in-app notifications, email campaigns, etc. You can also leverage WebEngage's analytics capabilities to get a 360-degree view of your users and the product.

RudderStack supports WebEngage as a destination to which you can seamlessly send your event data for efficient marketing and analytics.

<div class="successBlock">

> Find the open source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/">GitHub repository</a>.

Author: @sauravlal-rudderstack please ping me the link to the transformer code once it is live, so that we can update this URL. cc @ItsSudip

  phone: "+1-202-555-0146",
});
```

### Traits mapping

RudderStack maps the following `identify` traits to the corresponding WebEngage attributes:

| RudderStack trait | WebEngage attribute | Presence | Notes |
| :-------| :--------| :------| :------|
| `userId` | `userIdOnly` | Required if `anonymousId` is not present. | `userId` cannot exceed 100 characters. |
| `anonymousId` | `anonymousId` | Required if `userId` is not present. | `anonymousId` cannot exceed 100 characters. |
| `firstName` | `firstName` | Optional | The user's first name. |
| `lastName` | `lastName` | Optional | The user's last name. |
| `dateOfBirth`/`dateofbirth`/`birthday`/`dob`/`DOB` | `birthDate` | Optional | User's birth date in the ISO format: `yyyy-MM ddTHH:mm:ss±hhmm`. |
| `gender` | `gender` | Optional | The user's gender. |
| `email` | `email` | Optional | The user's email. |
| `phone` | `phone` | Optional | The user's phone. |
| `emailOptIn` | `emailOptIn` | Optional | The user's email subscription preference. |
| `smsOptIn` | `smsOptIn` | Optional | The user's SMS subscription preference. |
| `whatsappOptIn` | `whatsappOptIn` | Optional | The user's WhatsApp subscription preference. |

> | `company` | `company` | Optional | The user's company. |

Reviewer: company.name -> company

| `hashedEmail` | `hashedEmail` | Optional | The user's hashed email for email services. |
| `hashedPhone` | `hashedPhone` | Optional | The user's encrypted phone number for SMS services. |

> | `postalcode` / `address.postalCode` | `gender` | Optional | The user's postal code. |

Author: Can you please verify once more?

> | `attributes` | `email` | Optional | The user's custom attributes as key-value pairs. |

Reviewer: Please check the mapping

> | `attributes` | `attributes` | Optional | The user's custom attributes as key-value pairs. |

Author: Added the missing fields as reflected in the spec, please confirm.

### Identify traits considerations

Note the following when sending `identify` traits to WebEngage:

> - Either `userId` or `anonymousId` must be present in the `identify` call. If both these fields are present, RudderStack ignores `anonymousId` and sends `userId` to WebEngage.

Reviewer: if both userId and anonymousId are present then WebEngage ignores the anonymousId

  timestamp: "2022-05-05T14:58:10.000Z",
  currency: "USD",
  checkout_id: "X23441",
});
```

<div class="warningBlock">

Either <code class="inline-code">userId</code> or <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> must be present in the <code class="inline-code">track</code> call. In case both are present, RudderStack will ignore <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> and send <code class="inline-code">userId</code> to WebEngage.
</div>

### Property mapping

RudderStack maps the following event properties to the corresponding WebEngage attributes:

| RudderStack trait | WebEngage attribute | Presence | Notes |
| :-------| :--------| :------| :------|
| `userId` | `userIdOnly` | Required if `anonymousId` is not present. | `userId` cannot exceed 100 characters. |
| `anonymousId` | `anonymousId` | Required if `userId` is not present. | `anonymousId` cannot exceed 100 characters. |
| `eventName` | `event` | Required | The event name. |
| `timestamp`/`originalTimestamp` | `eventTime` | Optional | The date and time of the event in ISO format: `yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ss±hhmm`. |
| `properties` | `attributes` | Optional | The custom event attributes as key-value pairs. |

> ### Setting custom attributes

Author: @sauravlal-rudderstack please verify the content in this section. In the spec, we only mention the first point, but the rest are also specified in the WebEngage docs. cc @ItsSudip

WebEngage lets you send custom attributes as key-value pairs in the `attributes` parameter as described in the <Link to="#property-mapping">above section</Link>. However, there are a few things you should keep in mind:

- WebEngage ignores any custom attributes starting with `we_` as these are reserved for internal use.
- User attribute names must be less than 50 characters, while the `string` attribute values cannot exceed 1000 characters. WebEngage automatically truncates any additional characters.
- You can create a maximum of 25 custom user attributes of each data type.
- If the attribute value is a JSON object, it can only be used to personalize your campaigns. These attributes cannot be used to create user segments.
- Once defined, the data type of a custom user attribute cannot be changed again.

## Page

The <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/page"><code class="inline-code">page</code></Link> call lets you record your website's page views with any additional relevant information about the viewed page.

> RudderStack internally transforms the `page` call into a `track` call before sending it as a custom event to WebEngage. It sends the event/category name by transforming it in the format `Viewed ${event} ${name} ${category} ${page}`.

Author: @sauravlal-rudderstack what does `${event}` stand for here?

Reviewer: we can remove that `${event}`, it's updated in docs.

For example, consider the following `page` call:

```javascript

> rudderanalytics.page("Cart Viewed", {

Author: ```suggestion
rudderanalytics.page("Cart", "Cart Viewed", {
```

  path: "/best-seller/1",
  referrer: "https://www.google.com/search?q=estore+bestseller",
  search: "estore bestseller",
  title: "The best sellers offered by EStore",

>   url: "https://www.estore.com/best-seller/1"

Author: @sauravlal-rudderstack How does RudderStack deal with the properties of the `page` call? Are they sent to WebEngage similar to how the `track` properties are sent?  cc @ItsSudip

Reviewer 2: We are hitting the event endpoint in webengage for screen and page call. So whatever is in the screen or page properties will similarly send as track call.

});
```

> RudderStack transforms the above event into a `track` call named `Viewed Cart Viewed page` and sends it to WebEngage as a custom event.

Author: If the format is `Viewed ${event} ${name} ${category} ${page}`, then shouldn't the event name be `Viewed page Cart Viewed page`?

> RudderStack transforms the above event into a `track` call named `Viewed Cart Viewed page` and sends it to WebEngage as a custom event.

Author: ```suggestion
RudderStack transforms the above event into a `track` call named `Viewed Cart Cart Viewed page` and sends it to WebEngage as a custom event.
```

Author: @sauravlal-rudderstack please confirm if this change is correct.

## Screen

The <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/screen"><code class="inline-code">screen</code></Link> method lets you record whenever your user views their mobile screen with any additional relevant information about the screen. It is the mobile equivalent of a <Link to="#page"><code class="inline-code">page</code></Link> call.

> RudderStack internally transforms the `screen` call into a `track` call before sending it as a custom event to WebEngage. It sends the event/category name by transforming it in the format `Viewed ${event} ${name} ${category} ${screen}`.

Reviewer: Here also, we could remove the `${event}` docs updated.

For example, consider the following `screen` call:

```kotlin
rudderClient.screen(
    "home",
    "Games",
    RudderProperty().putValue("foo", "bar"),

>     null

Author: Same query as above, how are the `screen` properties sent to WebEngage?

)
```

> RudderStack transforms the above event into a `track` call named `Viewed home Games screen` and sends it to WebEngage as a custom event.

Author: If the transformed event format is `Viewed ${event} ${name} ${category} ${screen}`, then shouldn't this be `Viewed screen home Games screen`?

---
title: "WebEngage"
description: Step-by-step guide on sending your event data from RudderStack to WebEngage.
---

# WebEngage

[WebEngage](https://webengage.com/) is a full stack marketing automation tool. It lets you drive growth for your businesses by engaging your users via push and in-app notifications, email campaigns, etc. You can also leverage WebEngage's analytics capabilities to get a 360-degree view of your users and the product.

RudderStack supports WebEngage as a destination to which you can seamlessly send your event data for efficient marketing and analytics.

<div class="successBlock">

> Find the open source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/">GitHub repository</a>.

Author: ```suggestion
Find the open source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/blob/master/v0/destinations/webengage/transform.js">GitHub repository</a>.
```

2. Assign a name to the destination and click **Continue**.

### Connection settings

To successfully configure WebEngage as a destination, you will need to configure the following settings:

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/webengage-connection-settings.png" alt="WebEngage connection settings"/>

- **License Code**: Enter your WebEngage license code.
- **API Key**: Enter your WebEngage API key.

<div class="infoBlock">

To get your WebEngage license code and API key, log into your WebEngage dashboard and go to <strong>Data Platform</strong> > <strong>Integrations</strong> > <strong>REST API</strong>. For more information, refer to the <Link to="#faq">FAQ</Link> section below.
</div>

- **Data Center**: Select your WebEngage data center from the dropdown.

## Identify 

The <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/identify"><code class="inline-code">identify</code></Link> method lets you identify a user and associate them to their actions. It also lets you record any traits about them like their name, email, etc.

> RudderStack uses the `identify` call to create or update the customer information in WebEngage. It maps `userId` (a required trait in every event) to WebEngage's `userIdOnly` before sending the data via the [`users`](https://docs.webengage.com/docs/rest-api-tracking-users#users) API.

Author: ```suggestion
RudderStack uses the `identify` call to create or update the customer information in WebEngage. It maps `userId` or `anonymousId` (`userId` is prioritized if both are present ) to WebEngage's `userId` before sending the data via the [`users`](https://docs.webengage.com/docs/rest-api-tracking-users#users) API.
```

</div>

- **Data Center**: Select your WebEngage data center from the dropdown.

## Identify 

The <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/identify"><code class="inline-code">identify</code></Link> method lets you identify a user and associate them to their actions. It also lets you record any traits about them like their name, email, etc.

RudderStack uses the `identify` call to create or update the customer information in WebEngage. It maps `userId` (a required trait in every event) to WebEngage's `userIdOnly` before sending the data via the [`users`](https://docs.webengage.com/docs/rest-api-tracking-users#users) API.

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4GRlm", {
  email: "alex@example.com",
  phone: "+1-202-555-0146",
});
```

### Traits mapping

RudderStack maps the following `identify` traits to the corresponding WebEngage attributes:

| RudderStack trait | WebEngage attribute | Presence | Notes |
| :-------| :--------| :------| :------|

> | `userId` | `userIdOnly` | Required if `anonymousId` is not present. | `userId` cannot exceed 100 characters. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `userId` | `userId` | Required if `anonymousId` is not present. | `userId` cannot exceed 100 characters. |
```

| `anonymousId` | `anonymousId` | Required if `userId` is not present. | `anonymousId` cannot exceed 100 characters. |
| `firstName` | `firstName` | Optional | The user's first name. |
| `lastName` | `lastName` | Optional | The user's last name. |

> | `dateOfBirth`/`dateofbirth`/`birthday`/`dob`/`DOB` | `birthDate` | Optional | User's birth date in the ISO format: `yyyy-MM ddTHH:mm:ss±hhmm`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `dateOfBirth`/`dateofbirth`/`birthday`/`dob`/`DOB` | `birthDate` | Optional | The user's birth date in ISO format: `yyyy-MM ddTHH:mm:ss±hhmm`. |
```
just to be consistent

| `phone` | `phone` | Optional | The user's phone. |
| `emailOptIn` | `emailOptIn` | Optional | The user's email subscription preference. |
| `smsOptIn` | `smsOptIn` | Optional | The user's SMS subscription preference. |
| `whatsappOptIn` | `whatsappOptIn` | Optional | The user's WhatsApp subscription preference. |
| `company.name` | `company` | Optional | The user's company. |
| `hashedEmail` | `hashedEmail` | Optional | The user's hashed email for email services. |
| `hashedPhone` | `hashedPhone` | Optional | The user's encrypted phone number for SMS services. |
| `postalcode` / `address.postalCode` | `postalCode` | Optional | The user's postal code. |
| `region` / `address.region` | `region` | Optional | The user's region. |
| `locality` / `address.locality` | `locality` | Optional | The user's locality. |
| `city` / `address.city` | `city` | Optional | The user's city. |
| `country` / `address.country` | `country` | Optional | The user's country. |
| `attributes` | `attributes` | Optional | The user's custom attributes as key-value pairs. |

### Identify traits considerations

Note the following when sending `identify` traits to WebEngage:

> - Either `userId` or `anonymousId` must be present in the `identify` call. 

Reviewer 3: We say `userId`is a required field above. Here, any of these `userId` or `anonymousId` is required. Might create confusion.

Author: `userId` is required if `anonymousId` is not present and vice versa (as mentioned in the above table). Either of the two fields must be present, is what we say here.

Reviewer 3: I meant here, above:
It maps `userId` (**a required trait in every event**) to WebEngage's `userIdOnly` before sending the data via the [`users`]

Can we somehow make that clear here also?

Author: got it - i think we can mention RudderStack maps the `userId` / `anonymousId` (preference, `userId`) - depending on present in the payload and  maps it to WebEngage's `userId` before sending the data via the users API. 

@ItsSudip @sauravlal-rudderstack does this make sense?

- If both `userId` and `anonymousId` are present in the `identify` call, RudderStack ignores `anonymousId`.

> - WebEngage prioritizes `hashedEmail` over `email`. Hence, you once you set `hashedEmail`, it can then be updated only through a new `hashedEmail`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- WebEngage prioritizes `hashedEmail` over `email`. Hence, once you set `hashedEmail`, it can then be updated only through a new `hashedEmail`.
```

> - WebEngage prioritizes `hashedPhone` over `phone`. Hence, you once you set `hashedPhone`, it can then be updated only through a new `hashedPhone`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- WebEngage prioritizes `hashedPhone` over `phone`. Hence, once you set `hashedPhone`, it can then be updated only through a new `hashedPhone`.
```

## Track

The <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/track"><code class="inline-code">track</code></Link> method lets you capture user events along with the properties associated with them.

RudderStack uses the `track` call to send the custom events to WebEngage via the [`events`](https://docs.webengage.com/docs/rest-api-tracking-events#events) API.

A sample `track` call is shown below:

> ```javascript
> rudderanalytics.track("Order Completed", {
>   userId: "1hKOmRA4GRlm",
>   timestamp: "2022-05-05T14:58:10.000Z",
>   currency: "USD",
>   checkout_id: "X23441",
> });
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```javascript
rudderanalytics.track("Order Completed", {
  timestamp: "2022-05-05T14:58:10.000Z",
  currency: "USD",
  checkout_id: "X23441",
  order_id: "ORD00123"
});
```
```

<div class="warningBlock">
<ul>
  <li>Either <code class="inline-code">userId</code> or <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> must be present in the <code class="inline-code">track</code> call.</li> 
  <li>If both <code class="inline-code">userId</code> and <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code>are present, RudderStack will ignore <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code>.</li>

>   </ul>

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to mention it in that way. We are not populating the userId or anonymousId from properties of track call. The userId or anonymousId will be populated from the same place the identify call is occupying. It should be something like the customer should make an identify call before the track call otherwise the track call will be sent with an anonymousId.

Author: got it - will make this change.

</div>

### Property mapping

RudderStack maps the following event properties to the corresponding WebEngage attributes:

| RudderStack trait | WebEngage attribute | Presence | Notes |
| :-------| :--------| :------| :------|

> | `userId` | `userIdOnly` | Required if `anonymousId` is not present. | `userId` cannot exceed 100 characters. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `userId` | `userId` | Required if `anonymousId` is not present. | `userId` cannot exceed 100 characters. |
```

| `anonymousId` | `anonymousId` | Required if `userId` is not present. | `anonymousId` cannot exceed 100 characters. |
| `eventName` | `event` | Required | The event name. |
| `timestamp`/`originalTimestamp` | `eventTime` | Optional | The date and time of the event in ISO format: `yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ss±hhmm`. |
| `properties` | `eventData` | Optional | The custom event attributes as key-value pairs. |

### Setting custom attributes

> WebEngage lets you send custom attributes as key-value pairs in the `attributes` parameter as described in the <Link to="#property-mapping">above section</Link>. However, there are a few things you should keep in mind:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
WebEngage lets you send custom attributes as key-value pairs in the `eventData` parameter as described in the <Link to="#property-mapping">above section</Link>. However, there are a few things you should keep in mind:
```

Should this be eventData parameter as mentioned in the table above?

Author: @sauravlal-rudderstack please confirm.

Reviewer 2: Yes, it is `eventData` in the event endpoint and `attributes` in the user endpoint. So it is right here.

- WebEngage ignores any custom attributes starting with `we_` as these are reserved for internal use.
- User attribute names must be less than 50 characters, while the `string` attribute values cannot exceed 1000 characters. WebEngage automatically truncates any additional characters.
- You can create a maximum of 25 custom user attributes of each data type.
- If the attribute value is a JSON object, it can only be used to personalize your campaigns. These attributes cannot be used to create user segments.
- Once defined, the data type of a custom user attribute cannot be changed again.

## Page

The <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/page"><code class="inline-code">page</code></Link> call lets you record your website's page views with any additional relevant information about the viewed page.

> RudderStack internally transforms the `page` call into a `track` call before sending it as a custom event to WebEngage. It sends the event/category name by transforming it in the format `Viewed ${name} ${category} ${page}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RudderStack internally transforms the `page` call into a `track` call before sending it as a custom event to WebEngage. It sends the event/category name by transforming it in the format `Viewed ${name} ${category} page`.
```

For example, consider the following `page` call:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.page("Cart", "Cart Viewed", {
  path: "/best-seller/1",
  referrer: "https://www.google.com/search?q=estore+bestseller",
  search: "estore bestseller",
  title: "The best sellers offered by EStore",
  url: "https://www.estore.com/best-seller/1"
});
```

RudderStack transforms the above event into a `track` call named `Viewed Cart Viewed page` and sends it to WebEngage as a custom event.

<div class="infoBlock">

> RudderStack sends the <code class="inline-code">page</code> event properties to WebEngage similar to the <code class="inline-code">track</code> event properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RudderStack sends the <code class="inline-code">page</code> event properties to WebEngage similarly as the <code class="inline-code">track</code> event properties.
```

Author: Grammarly suggested adding a comma before `similar to the` instead of using `similarly as`. Made this change and pushed accordingly.

</div>

## Screen

The <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/screen"><code class="inline-code">screen</code></Link> method lets you record whenever your user views their mobile screen with any additional relevant information about the screen. It is the mobile equivalent of a <Link to="#page"><code class="inline-code">page</code></Link> call.

> RudderStack internally transforms the `screen` call into a `track` call before sending it as a custom event to WebEngage. It sends the event/category name by transforming it in the format `Viewed ${name} ${category} ${screen}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RudderStack internally transforms the `screen` call into a `track` call before sending it as a custom event to WebEngage. It sends the event/category name by transforming it in the format `Viewed ${name} ${category} screen`.
```

> RudderStack internally transforms the `screen` call into a `track` call before sending it as a custom event to WebEngage. It sends the event/category name by transforming it in the format `Viewed ${name} ${category} ${screen}`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RudderStack internally transforms the `screen` call into a `track` call before sending it as a custom event to WebEngage. It sends the event/category name by transforming it in the `Viewed ${name} ${category} ${screen}` format.
```

> RudderStack internally transforms the `screen` call into a `track` call before sending it as a custom event to WebEngage. It sends the event/category name by transforming it in the format `Viewed ${name} ${category} ${screen}`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RudderStack internally transforms the `screen` call into a `track` call before sending it as a custom event to WebEngage. It sends the event/category name by transforming it in the `Viewed ${name} ${category} ${screen}` format.
```

For example, consider the following `screen` call:

```kotlin
rudderClient.screen(
    "home",
    "Games",
    RudderProperty().putValue("foo", "bar"),
    null
)
```

RudderStack transforms the above event into a `track` call named `Viewed home Games screen` and sends it to WebEngage as a custom event.

<div class="infoBlock">

> RudderStack sends the <code class="inline-code">screen</code> event properties to WebEngage similar to the <code class="inline-code">track</code> event properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RudderStack sends the <code class="inline-code">screen</code> event properties to WebEngage similarly as the <code class="inline-code">track</code> event properties.
```

</div>

## FAQ

### Where can I find the WebEngage License Code and API key?

> To get your WebEngage public API key, follow these steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To get your WebEngage License Code and public API key, follow these steps:
```
